NXDOC-1958: Remove Negative Permissions (#1311)
nuxeo/doc.nuxeo.com-content: src/nxdoc/nuxeo-server/data-store/security/how-to-grant-the-edit-permission-without-the-remove-permission.md

    shortlink: swFvAQ
    shortlink_source: 'https://doc.nuxeo.com/x/swFvAQ'
    source_link: /display/NXDOC/How+to+Grant+the+Edit+Permission+without+the+Remove+Permission
toc: true
tree_item_index: 400
---

As described on the page [Managing Permissions]({{page space='userdoc' page='permissions'}}), the **Edit** permission, visible in the UI, contains the permission to remove content (`Remove`).</br>

> It means that you cannot grant the **Edit** permission (`Write`) without the `Remove` permission at the same level of the repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It means that you cannot grant the **Edit** permission (`Write`) without the `Remove` permission at the same time.
```

We will do that in two steps:
- First, override the default **Edit** permission to remove the `Remove` permission.
- Then, create a new permission `ReadWriteAndRemove` (equivalent to the default **Edit** permission overridden above).

## Override the Edit Permission

1.  [Add a new contribution]({{page page='how-to-contribute-to-an-extension'}}) to remove the `Remove` permission from `Write` permission.</br>
Check the [Nuxeo Explorer](https://explorer.nuxeo.com/nuxeo/site/distribution/Nuxeo%20Platform%20LTS%202019-10.10/viewExtensionPoint/org.nuxeo.ecm.core.security.SecurityService--permissions) page to update the suitable extension point.

  ```xml
  <extension target="org.nuxeo.ecm.core.security.SecurityService"
    point="permissions">
    <permission name="Write">
      <remove>Remove</remove>
    </permission>
  </extension>
  ```

This change will make the permission `ReadWrite`, displayed under the permission label "Edit" in the UI, act as wanted: it no longer includes the right to remove content.

## Create a New Permission

> If you want users to be able to add and remove content, you must now grant them the Edit permission and the Remove permission. Or you can add a new permission that will behave like the default `ReadWrite` permission used to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want users to be able to add and remove content, you must now grant them the `Write` permission and `Remove` permission. Or you can add a new permission that will behave like the default `ReadWrite` permission used to.
```
